- [Instructor] So let's get into a demo
of finding out how automatic locale resolution will work
for your application.
In the previous slide,
we quickly discussed that accept header locale resolver
is the default implementation that's provided to you
by the spring MVC framework.
So let's go ahead in the project.
And the first step is to add message property files
for different locales on class path.
So let's go under Resources.
And inside this I'm going to create a new file.
Let's call this messages.property.
So that's the default name that spring MVC expects.
And I'm going to create another file
which will be called like this.
Messages_ S3.
Now S3 is for the Swedish language.
The file that I created earlier
is for the default language which is English.
So this will be named,
messages_SV.properties.
So tomorrow, let's say you have to enable French language
in your application.
You will have to create one more properties file,
which will be labeled as messages_ FR.properties.
So where am I getting these codes from,
S3, FR, etcetera.
So it's very easy,
you just have to Google for those.
If you just say,
teen, i18n codes.
And if you go on this link,
which tells you i18n languages countries character sets.
There you go,
this is the official Worldwide Web Consortium URL.
And it has got all of these codes that's present
for all the languages you have.
So I am trying to enable Swedish in my project,
the code for it is SV,
and you can look for any other language code
that you wish to enable in your application.
Okay?
So we have messages properties
and messages_SV properties.
What we're going to do is,
we are going to have a key value property set defined
for the labels
and error messages.
Right now for this demo,
I'm going to restrict it only for the labels on the page,
and then you can expand the demo
and explore further
and bring in all your error messages also
to tag along with it.
So let's go ahead and define them.
Under my messages.properties.
So what am I going to first of all internationalize
or what am I going to localize?
So on index.gsp,
you see these navbar links that we have,
home, login, search,
and LinkedIn.
So these are the four things that I'm going to put
the localization for.
So let's go to messages.properties.
And again, this data is going to be in the form of key
and value.
The keys are always decided according to the convention
that the application wants to follow.
So let's say this is label
because it's a label value,
and this is for the home hyperlink
and let that be set to home.
Similarly, label.search
will be search.
Then label.login
will be called login,
label.linkedin
will be called linkedin.
So key value pairs,
again, this convention is of your choice
as per your design that you will decide.
Okay?
And now what I did is
I tried to pull those labels into a central file.
This is that resource bundle
that web MVC framework keep referring to.
Remember, whenever anybody talks
about a web MVC framework resource bundle,
that actually means that we are trying to bundle everything
into a common resources file,
which has an extension of.properties.
Simple as that.
Now, we have to make sure that all of these keys
labelel.home, label.search,
label.login
and label.linkedin,
they are exactly the same
in the other file.
So I'm going to copy this,
go to SV.properties,
paste them,
but now these values will change.
So home in Swedish is called (foreign language)
login in Swedish is called (foreign language)
LinkedIn will not change that will still be the same.
Search is called (foreign language).
But now that has got
an accented character,
let's pick that up from the internet.
I'm going to open translate google.
And let's enter search,
and let's select Swedish.
Yeah, so that's how it is,
and if you see there's an accented character,
which is called (foreign language) in Swedish,
so let's copy that,
come back,
and paste that,
under your label.search.
So that will be the value.
So basically,
when you pull everything in your default properties file,
you are localizing,
putting them at a central place.
But when you carry the same keys
and go in another bundle file
with different values,
you're trying to now support internationalization
in your project.
There's one very important thing here,
you have to remember about this,
because they could be problems that you may face.
So what you have to do is,
there is a setting of file
and coding,
in (mumbles)
So let's go there.
And always make sure
that the project encoding
and if you look down the properties file section,
the default encoding,
everything should be set to UTF-8.
Otherwise, these accented characters
that I just now refer to,
they wouldn't be displayed correctly.
So please make sure that this is set to UTF-8.
If you are working in Eclipse,
that also will have a similar setting,
make sure this is set to the correct encoding format,
otherwise, it often poses problems on the GSB pages.
So say, okay.
And there we are,
we have our labels ready,
what is the next step?
Use springs tags,
to resolve those keys,
And that is what we have to do on GSP.
So let's come back,
let's open index GSP.
And instead of hard coding that home label now,
I am going to use spring tag
on line number 18.
And that tag is spring message.
And there's an attribute
called code for it.
And that code is basically this key.
So let's copy that from line one,
and base that on line 18
And then of course, end this tag.
So we have to do a similar thing
for the rest of the labels.
So I'm going to quickly do that,
based it online 19 2021
and change these labels.
So this is for login.
This is for search.
And this is for linkedin.
So we have R spring framework
that live declared right there,
which was already done before.
And then we have a full labels
that we are trying to pick up
from the properties file.
What is the next step?
You have to just build and run the application.
So let's understand how will that work
after the build.
Okay?
The application is started,
let's open our browser window,
let's go to home.
So did you see what happened?
It says (foreign language) LinkedIn.
And why did it do that?
Now this is the entire magic
that localization
and internationalization concept is going to do
for you in spring MVC.
In the previous slide,
we mentioned that there's an abstract header locale resolve,
which will be the default implementation
for your locale resolution.
So where do you think
it picked up the Swedish locale from?
It picked up from the client settings.
So if you go to settings,
I'm going to click here on Chrome settings.
And let's go to the language option.
And you see Swedish right now is at the top.
If you see the Swedish language is at the top,
If however you do not find your language in the list,
please add that
by clicking on the add languages button (mumbles)
Now Swedish is already added in my browser,
and it is right at the top,
which is why it is taking that as the preference language
and trying to resolve my properties.
However, if I say,
let's go ahead and say move this to the top,
which is English to the top,
and then refresh this,
do you see now it change to English?
So this default implementation of locale resolver
is trying to pick up the settings
from the Google Chrome browser.
This will be true for any other browsers
that you're making use of.
So if you change the language in those,
then basically you're changing the client settings
and your local resolver,
from spring MVC is going to pick that up
and display the corresponding labels and messages
from the respective properties file.
So many got a code of SV,
it actually went
and resolved everything from messages_SV.properties.
But when the code was EN,
then it did so from the messages.properties file.
So it is as simple
as just plugging in these two files in your spring MVC app
and you're ready to go.
Let's go back and change the language again to Swedish.
Is trying to confirm,
choose option of languages.
Make sure this is enable.
Move to the top.
And now if I refresh,
I should get it.
So there we go.
We have this entire website displayed in Swedish,
not the entire website particularly
but just those four labels.
So if I want to say this in Swedish,
I will say
(foreign language)
That means it is displayed in Swedish.
So that's how you can plug in
the localization internationalization capability.